docs(tem): webhook events payload (#3734)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-services/transactional-email/api-cli/webhook-events-payload.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Understanding Webhook event payloads
  description: This page details the fields of the webhook event payloads for Scaleway Transactional Email
content:
  h1: Understanding Webhook event payloads
  paragraph: This page details the fields of the webhook event payloads for Scaleway Transactional Email

> tags: spf spf-record dkim dkim-records dmarc dmarc-record transactional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: spf dkim dmarc transactional
```

dates:
  validation: 2024-09-20
  posted: 2024-09-20
categories:
  - managed-services
---

Events triggered by webhooks contain payloads that describe and detail the events.

Find below a detailed description of the fields in a [Webhoook event](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/create-webhooks/) payload.

| Tag     | Description    |
|---------|-------------------------------------|
| `id`     | Event identifier                                                                          |
| `type`     | Event type                                      |
| `organization_id`    | Domain Organization                            |
| `project_id` | Domain Project                                                       |
| `domain_id`  | Domain identifier                                                       |
| `domain_name`   | Domain name  |
| `created_at`    | Event creation date                            |
| `email_sent_at`    | 	Email reception date by the recipient server                          |

> | `email_queued_at` | Email reception date in by TEM proxy or API                                                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `email_queued_at` | Email reception date by TEM proxy or API                                                          |
```

| `email_id`  | Email identifier (used for GetEmail endpoint)                                                      |
| `email_from`   | Email FROM address |
| `email_to`  | Email recipient address                                                          |
| `email_headers`   | SMTP headers  |
| `email_error`   | SMTP message explaining the drop  |

> | `email_next_try`   | Next time we will try to send the email to the recipient server  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `email_next_try`   | Next time the email will be sent to the recipient server  |
```

| `email_try_count`   | Total number of tries attempted for this email  |

## Examples of payload by event type

Webhooks may trigger different [types of events](/managed-services/transactional-email/concepts/#webhook-event-type). These types have varying payload fields.

## email_queued
```json
{
	"id": string,
	"type": "email_queued",
 	"organization_id": string,
	"project_id": string,
    "domain_id": string,
	"domain_name": string,

>     "created_at": string,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    "created_at": date,
```

	"email_queued_at": date,
    "email_id": string,
    "email_from": string,
	"email_to": string,

> 	"email_headers": [{"name": string, "value": string}],

Reviewer 3: We should put the slice or array in multiple lines, or the github view messed up with the colors

Like this:
```suggestion
	"email_headers": [{
		"name": string,
		"value": string
	}],
```

}
```
## email_dropped
```json
{
	"id": string,
	"type": "email_dropped",
	"organization_id": string,
	"project_id": string,
    "domain_id": string,
	"domain_name": string,

>     "created_at": string,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    "created_at": date,
```
